# Motrice Developer's Glossary #

This glossary is intended for Motrice developers. The intention is to describe the semantics of key Motrice concepts. Text [in brackets] indicates a limited scope of the term.


* **docboxRef [DocBox]**  
 A uuid that uniquely identifies a document in DocBox including its step number.

 Created by DocBox.  A docboxRef is a type 4 (random) uuid formatted as 5 groups of hex digits.


* **docNo (sv: dokumentnummer, en: document number) [DocBox]**  
 In contrast to uuids, a document number is a visible id that may be shown to end users.

 A document number identifies a document and optionally a step number.  The display format without step number is XXX-XXX where each X is a letter or a digit.  Including a step number N the display format becomes XXX-XXX-N.  In internal computations and for database storage the document number is an integer.  The hyphens are for readability only and may be omitted.


* **[=#document document] [DocBox]**  
 Form data converted to a conveniently readable format, especially PDF/A.

 After conversion the connection between form data and the document is broken.  A new document must be created if form data is edited after conversion.

 A document may be processed in one or more steps after creation.  Such processing must not change form data, the core of the document.  Currently the only way a document may evolve is by being signed.  Just after conversion the document is in Step 0.  The step number is incremented every time the document is signed.  A document may carry several signatures.


* **form *or* form definition**  


 Layout of a form with fields for a user to fill in.  A form definition is like a template that may be used many times.


* **form data *or* form instance**  


 Values that a user has supplied for a form.  In addition to field values form data may include attachments.  Examples of attachments: Images, documents.  Form data is represented by an XML document.  An attachment is a file of any kind.  A new uuid is generated to identify an attachment, but the original file name is also stored.  Form data may be edited repeatedly over a number of sessions.


* **formDataUuid**  
 A uuid that identifies form data. Generated by Orbeon Forms.

 The uuid is a string containing (lower case) hex digits without other formatting.  Form data may be edited repeatedly over time, but the formDataUuid remains the same.  There is no version management of form data, so a formDataUuid has precise meaning only if accompanied by a timestamp.  A document retains the original formDataUuid for traceability.


* **formPath**  
 A name that identifies a form definition.

 Example: `miljoforvaltningen/pcb_inventering--v002`  DocBox only uses published form definitions.


* **format spec**  
 An identifier for identifying a format specification.

 The identifier is a string with uri format.  Example: `http://motrice.org/spec/docbox/0.3.3/pdf`.  Symbolically it may be written `http://motrice.org/spec/$artifact/$version`.  An optional subdivision may be appended.


* **step number [DocBox]**  
 Modifying a document in DocBox is done in steps.

 The first step number is 0 (the unmodified document).  See [#document document].

